[DOC]: Added INT4 weight compression description (#20812)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/articles_en/openvino_workflow/model_optimization_guide/weight_compression.md

- enabling the inference of exceptionally large models that cannot be accommodated in the memory of the device; 
- improving the inference performance of the models by reducing the latency of the memory access when computing the operations with weights, for example, Linear layers.

> Currently, `Neural Network Compression Framework (NNCF) <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf>`__ provides weight quantization to 8 and 4-bit integer data types as a compression method primarily designed to optimize LLMs. The main difference between weights compression and full model quantization (post-training quantization) is that activations remain floating-point in the case of weights compression which leads to a better accuracy. Weight compression for LLMs provides a solid inference performance improvement which is on par with the performance of the full model quantization. In addition, weight compression is data-free and does not require a calibration dataset, making it easy to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, `Neural Network Compression Framework (NNCF) <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf>`__ provides weight quantization to 8 and 4-bit integer data types as a compression method primarily designed to optimize LLMs. The main difference between weights compression and full model quantization (post-training quantization) is that activations remain floating-point in the case of weight compression, resulting in better accuracy. Weight compression for LLMs provides a solid inference performance improvement which is on par with the performance of the full model quantization. In addition, weight compression is data-free and does not require a calibration dataset, making it easy to use.
```

Compress Model Weights
######################

> - **8-bit weight quantization** - this method is aimed at accurate optimization of the model which usually leads to significant performance improvements of the Transformer-based models. Models with 8-bit compressed weights are performant on the vast majority of the supported CPU and GPU platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **8-bit weight quantization** - this method is aimed at accurate optimization of the model, which usually leads to significant performance improvements for Transformer-based models. Models with 8-bit compressed weights are performant on the vast majority of supported CPU and GPU platforms.
```

Now, the model is ready for compilation and inference. It can be also saved into a compressed format, resulting in a smaller binary file.

> - **INT4 weight quantization** - this method stands for an INT4-INT8 mixed-precision weight quantization where INT4 is considered as a primary precision and INT8 is a backup one. It usually results in a smaller model size and a lower inference latency but accuracy degradation is also higher. The method has several parameters that can provide different performance-accuracy trade-offs after optimization:

Reviewer 2: suggest to replace to "accuracy degradation could be higher, depending on the model"

Author: Done

> - **4-bit weight quantization** - this method stands for an INT4-INT8 mixed-precision weight quantization where INT4 is considered as a primary precision and INT8 is a backup one. It usually results in a smaller model size and a lower inference latency but accuracy degradation could be higher, depending on the model. The method has several parameters that can provide different performance-accuracy trade-offs after optimization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **4-bit weight quantization** - this method stands for an INT4-INT8 mixed-precision weight quantization, where INT4 is considered as the primary precision and INT8 is the backup one. It usually results in a smaller model size and lower inference latency, although the accuracy degradation could be higher, depending on the model. The method has several parameters that can provide different performance-accuracy trade-offs after optimization:
```

  * ``mode``` - there are two modes to choose from: ``INT4_SYM`` - stands for INT4 symmetric weight quantization and results in faster inference and smaller model size, and ``INT4_ASYM`` - INT4 asymmetric weight quantization with variable zero-point for more accurate results

>   * ``group_size`` - controls the size of the group of weights that share the same quantization parameters. The smaller the model size the more accurate the optimized model. We recommend using the following group sizes: ``128``, ``64``, ``32`` (``128`` is default value)

Author: right, updated

  * `ratio` - controls the ratio between INT4 and INT8 compressed layers in the model. For example, 0.8 means that 80% of layers will be compressed to INT4 while the rest to INT8 precision.

> 

Reviewer 2: Could we add some statement about selection of those parameters and (if reasonable) could we maybe make table with most popular models and recommended settings?
Like this: 
Please see below few examples of known to be working well settings for most popular models:
<hf link> <sym/asym> <gsize> <ratio>
This should be easy to get, but could also indicate which models are supported

Author: @ljaljushkin, do we have such recommendations that we can place here?

Reviewer 3: Here's the best configuration for a few models that I found so far: 
https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/blob/abce5d9bc126786844a9c2599ab6e0ad04ba9dff/docs/compression_algorithms/CompressWeights.md#evaluation-results
We could extend it for other models. 
Regarding recommendations, we know how each separate parameter influence on accuracy and performance, and it's described in this PR.
But it's hard to say how would they work in combination for each individual model. Evaluation of accuracy and performance of many combinations on a big scope of models should give some insights.

Reviewer 4: Let's put at least a link to that NNCF documentation here!

Author: @ngaloppo, I don't think this is the right way since we have also results for the experimental NF4 type and they are much better than INT4. It can confuse users because NF4 works only for AVX-512 + FP32 inference (i.e. no support of SPR and new client CPUs or any GPU). It is better to extract this table and place it here.

Author: Updated

Reviewer 4: Got it, thanks for clarifying!

>   * ``mode`` - there are two modes to choose from: ``INT4_SYM`` - stands for INT4 symmetric weight quantization and results in faster inference and smaller model size, and ``INT4_ASYM`` - INT4 asymmetric weight quantization with variable zero-point for more accurate results
> 
>   * ``group_size`` - controls the size of the group of weights that share the same quantization parameters. The smaller the model size the more accurate the optimized model but the larger its footprint and the slower the inference. We recommend using the following group sizes: ``128``, ``64``, ``32`` (``128`` is default value)
> 
>   * ``ratio`` - controls the ratio between INT4 and INT8 compressed layers in the model. For example, 0.8 means that 80% of layers will be compressed to INT4 while the rest to INT8 precision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * ``mode`` - there are two modes to choose from: ``INT4_SYM`` - stands for INT4 symmetric weight quantization and results in faster inference and smaller model size, and ``INT4_ASYM`` - INT4 asymmetric weight quantization with variable zero-point for more accurate results.

  * ``group_size`` - controls the size of the group of weights that share the same quantization parameters. Smaller model size results in a more accurate optimized model but with a larger footprint and slower inference. The following group sizes are recommended: ``128``, ``64``, ``32`` (``128`` is default value)

  * ``ratio`` - controls the ratio between INT4 and INT8 compressed layers in the model. For example, 0.8 means that 80% of layers will be compressed to INT4, while the rest will be compressed to INT8 precision.
```

The example below shows 4-bit weight quantization applied on top of OpenVINO IR:

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: OpenVINO
      :sync: openvino
      
      .. doxygensnippet:: docs/optimization_guide/nncf/code/weight_compression_openvino.py
         :language: python
         :fragment: [compression_4bit]

.. note::

   OpenVINO also supports models from Hugging Face `Transformers <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers>`__ library optimized 

>    with `GPTQ <https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ>`__. There is no need to do an extra step of model optimization in this case.

Reviewer 2: could you clarify: "...optimization in this case, model conversion will ensure that int4 optimization results are preserved and model inference will benefit from it."

Author: Done

>    model conversion will ensure that int4 optimization results are preserved and model inference will benefit from it.

Author: This works as it is described, i.e. with `OVModelForCausalLM `. Happy to see a proposal if it is not clear here.

>    model conversion will ensure that int4 optimization results are preserved and model inference will benefit from it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   OpenVINO also supports models from Hugging Face `Transformers <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers>`__ library optimized 
   with `GPTQ <https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ>`__. Those models can be loaded and converted directly with the `from_pretrained()` methods of the `Optimum Intel <https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/main/en/intel/inference>`__ wrappers for Hugging Face models. Model conversion will ensure that int4 optimization results are preserved and model inference will benefit from it.
```

>    OpenVINO also supports 4-bit models from Hugging Face `Transformers <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers>`__ library optimized 
>    with `GPTQ <https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ>`__. There is no need to do an extra step of model optimization in this case because 
>    model conversion will ensure that int4 optimization results are preserved and model inference will benefit from it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   OpenVINO also supports 4-bit models from Hugging Face `Transformers <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers>`__ library optimized 
   with `GPTQ <https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ>`__. In this case, there is no need for an additional model optimization step because model conversion will automatically preserve the INT4 optimization results, allowing model inference to benefit from it.
```
